README.md, before:

# Just Another Blockchain Simulator #

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hyajam/jabs)
![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/hyajam/jabs.svg?branch=objectifiedNetworkAndSimulator)
![Twitter URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fhabibyajam)

![Alt-Text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hyajam/jabs/objectifiedNetworkAndSimulator/img/Jabs-logo.png)

JABS - Just Another Blockchain Simulator.

JABS is a blockchain network simulator aimed at researching consensus 
algorithms for performance and security. It is designed to easily handel
simulation of networks as large as normal public blockchain networks 
(~10000 nodes) in reasonable time.


## Installation ##
There are two suggested installation methods Introduced here.
Installation on a Debian-based linux like Ubuntu and
installation using Dockerfile.

### Installation on Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04 ### 

First, you should install `git`,  `openjdk-17-jdk`, and `maven`.

```shell script
$ sudo apt install git openjdk-17-jdk
$ sudo apt install maven
```

After that, clone the git repository.
```shell script
$ git clone https://github.com/hyajam/jabs.git
```

Use maven `mvn` to make a jar file.
```shell script
$ cd jabs
$ mvn clean install
```

You might need to set `JAVA_HOME` to java home directory (this 
might vary depending on your linux distribution and jdk version):

```shell
$ JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/; mvn clean install
```

Then to run the compiled jar file.

```shell script
$ java -jar target/jabs.jar
```

### Installation using Docker-Compose ###
The easiest method for running jabs is using ```docker-compose```. You need
to have ```git``` and ```docker-compose``` installed on your system. Clone 
the repository using git.
```shell script
$ git clone https://github.com/hyajam/jabs.git
```

Then, use docker compose to build an image and run the container. The output 
of simulation will be automatically sent to ```output/``` folder.
```shell script
$ cd jabs
$ docker-compose up
```

If your user id and group id are not 1000 you might need to change the 
values in `Dockerfile` and `compose.yaml` accordingly. You might be able to
find your user id and group id using commands `id -u` and `id -g` in linux.

## Quick Start ##



## Usage ##
Currently, you can use JABS by editing Main.java file and creating new scenarios for your tests.


## Supported Consensus algorithms ##
Currently, the following consensus algorithms are implemented in JABS: 
 1. Nakamoto Consensus
 2. Ghost protocol
 3. PBFT
 4. Casper FFG
 5. IOTA Tangle
 6. Nakamoto Heaviest-Chain
 7. Robust Round Robin

## Roadmap ##

- [x] Add new block mining process that can support adjustable difficulty.
- [x] Add multiple loggers and scenarios in main class.
- [ ] Add detailed comparison with other simulators in README.md.
- [x] Add new network latency stats that has countries instead of continents.
- [ ] Add events for network churn.
- [ ] Exploring possible multithreading options.
- [ ] Add new consensus algorithms:
    - [x] IOTA
    - [ ] Honey Badger BFT
    - [ ] DPoS

## Other Blockchain Simulators ##
 1. **Bitcoin Simulator**: developed in C++ and based on NS3. Can simulate Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin and probably other blockchain networks based on Nakamoto Consensus. Although it is probably the most accurate of the blockchain simulators it is fairly slow. Does not simulate transactions. (https://github.com/arthurgervais/Bitcoin-Simulator)
 2. **BlockSim**: developed in Python. Supports simulating both Bitcoin and Ethereum. Accurate but slow. Simulates transactions and connection handshakes. (https://github.com/carlosfaria94/blocksim)
 3. **SimBlock**: developed in Java. In current version supports only Nakamoto Consensus. Plans on adding GHOST protocol. Fast. Does not simulate transactions. SimBlock partially inspired this project. (https://github.com/dsg-titech/simblock)


## Contributing

Any contributions you make to JABS project are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star. Thanks.

Steps for code contribution to the project:

 1. Fork the Project
 2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
 3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
 4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
 5. Open a Pull Request


## License ##

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Contact ##

Habib Yajam - [@habibyajam](https://twitter.com/HabibYajam) - habib.yajam@gmail.com

Commit message:

[FIX] Add research paper citation  - Add CITATION.cff file  - Add paper citation in bibtex format to README.md  - Add bach script average_time.sh for calculating average time of running in case it is needed for speed comparision.
Former-commit-id: 180b8086ecd49dcbbe210609c5f45ce416b9252f [formerly 20a119a7f0c8cd71bc8d5b54326504ac279abcd2]
Former-commit-id: 1f4c36a7dcc51abf44990b65c95d14e0ee2bffbd

README.md, after:

# Just Another Blockchain Simulator #

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hyajam/jabs)
![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/hyajam/jabs.svg?branch=objectifiedNetworkAndSimulator)
![Twitter URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fhabibyajam)

![Alt-Text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hyajam/jabs/objectifiedNetworkAndSimulator/img/Jabs-logo.png)

JABS - Just Another Blockchain Simulator.

JABS is a blockchain network simulator aimed at researching consensus 
algorithms for performance and security. It is designed to easily handel
simulation of networks as large as normal public blockchain networks 
(~10000 nodes) in reasonable time.


## Installation ##
There are two suggested installation methods Introduced here.
Installation on a Debian-based linux like Ubuntu and
installation using Dockerfile.

### Installation on Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04 ### 

First, you should install `git`,  `openjdk-17-jdk`, and `maven`.

```shell script
$ sudo apt install git openjdk-17-jdk
$ sudo apt install maven
```

After that, clone the git repository.
```shell script
$ git clone https://github.com/hyajam/jabs.git
```

Use maven `mvn` to make a jar file.
```shell script
$ cd jabs
$ mvn clean install
```

You might need to set `JAVA_HOME` to java home directory (this 
might vary depending on your linux distribution and jdk version):

```shell
$ JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/; mvn clean install
```

Then to run the compiled jar file.

```shell script
$ java -jar target/jabs.jar
```

### Installation using Docker-Compose ###
The easiest method for running jabs is using ```docker-compose```. You need
to have ```git``` and ```docker-compose``` installed on your system. Clone 
the repository using git.
```shell script
$ git clone https://github.com/hyajam/jabs.git
```

Then, use docker compose to build an image and run the container. The output 
of simulation will be automatically sent to ```output/``` folder.
```shell script
$ cd jabs
$ docker-compose up
```

If your user id and group id are not 1000 you might need to change the 
values in `Dockerfile` and `compose.yaml` accordingly. You might be able to
find your user id and group id using commands `id -u` and `id -g` in linux.

## Quick Start ##



## Usage ##
Currently, you can use JABS by editing Main.java file and creating new scenarios for your tests.


## Supported Consensus algorithms ##
Currently, the following consensus algorithms are implemented in JABS: 
 1. Nakamoto Consensus
 2. Ghost protocol
 3. PBFT
 4. Casper FFG
 5. IOTA Tangle
 6. Nakamoto Heaviest-Chain
 7. Robust Round Robin

## Roadmap ##

- [x] Add new block mining process that can support adjustable difficulty.
- [x] Add multiple loggers and scenarios in main class.
- [ ] Add detailed comparison with other simulators in README.md.
- [x] Add new network latency stats that has countries instead of continents.
- [ ] Add events for network churn.
- [ ] Exploring possible multithreading options.
- [ ] Add new consensus algorithms:
    - [x] IOTA
    - [ ] Honey Badger BFT
    - [ ] DPoS

## Other Blockchain Simulators ##
 1. **Bitcoin Simulator**: developed in C++ and based on NS3. Can simulate Bitcoin, Litecoin, Dogecoin and probably other blockchain networks based on Nakamoto Consensus. Although it is probably the most accurate of the blockchain simulators it is fairly slow. Does not simulate transactions. (https://github.com/arthurgervais/Bitcoin-Simulator)
 2. **BlockSim**: developed in Python. Supports simulating both Bitcoin and Ethereum. Accurate but slow. Simulates transactions and connection handshakes. (https://github.com/carlosfaria94/blocksim)
 3. **SimBlock**: developed in Java. In current version supports only Nakamoto Consensus. Plans on adding GHOST protocol. Fast. Does not simulate transactions. SimBlock partially inspired this project. (https://github.com/dsg-titech/simblock)


## Contributing

Any contributions you make to JABS project are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star. Thanks.

Steps for code contribution to the project:

 1. Fork the Project
 2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
 3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
 4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
 5. Open a Pull Request


## License ##

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Publications ##

Please use the following bibtex reference to cite our paper:

```
@ARTICLE{10144349,
  author={Yajam, Habib and Ebadi, Elnaz and Akhaee, Mohammad Ali},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering}, 
  title={JABS: A Blockchain Simulator for Researching Consensus Algorithms}, 
  year={2023},
  volume={},
  number={},
  pages={1-12},
  doi={10.1109/TNSE.2023.3282916}
  }
```

## Contact ##

Habib Yajam - [@habibyajam](https://twitter.com/HabibYajam) - habib.yajam@gmail.com
